README.md, before:

# AI Support Dashboard – Backend

Backend API of the **AI Support Dashboard** project, responsible for authentication, ticket CRUD, AI job processing, and analytics.

This repository is part of the **AI Support Dashboard** project.  
Project overview and architecture: https://github.com/LuisAMSantiago/ai-support-dashboard

## Tech Stack
- Laravel
- Sanctum
- Queues (database/sync)

## Requirements
- PHP >= 8.2
- Composer
- MySQL or PostgreSQL

## What this backend demonstrates
- RESTful API development with Laravel
- SPA authentication using Laravel Sanctum
- Asynchronous processing with jobs and queues
- Event modeling and activity history tracking
- Clean code organization and separation of responsibilities

## Running locally
1. `cp .env.example .env`
2. `composer install`
3. `php artisan key:generate`
4. Configure the following variables in `.env`:
    - `APP_URL=http://127.0.0.1:8000`
    - `SANCTUM_STATEFUL_DOMAINS=localhost:5173`
    - `SESSION_DOMAIN=localhost`
    - `DB_*`
5. `php artisan migrate --seed`
6. `php artisan serve`

## AI Jobs (Queues)
By default, you can use:
- `QUEUE_CONNECTION=sync` to run jobs immediately, or
- `QUEUE_CONNECTION=database` and `php artisan queue:work` for background processing.

If using `database`, make sure the queue migrations have been applied (`php artisan migrate`).

## Authentication
- SPA authentication using Laravel Sanctum
- Login available through the frontend application

## Seed data
The database seed creates a test user:
- email: `test@example.com`
- password: `password`

## AI (mock, provider-ready architecture)
The backend uses `App\Services\MockAiTicketService` by default.  
To integrate a real AI provider, create a service that implements `AiTicketServiceInterface` and update the binding in `AppServiceProvider`.

Commit message:

Atualiza configuração do ambiente e documentação: altera APP_URL para 127.0.0.1, adiciona variáveis para integração com OpenAI no .env.example e atualiza README.md com instruções para habilitar o serviço OpenAI. Refatora AppServiceProvider para alternar entre serviços de IA mock e real com base na chave da API.

README.md, after:

# AI Support Dashboard – Backend

Backend API of the **AI Support Dashboard** project, responsible for authentication, ticket CRUD, AI job processing, and analytics.

This repository is part of the **AI Support Dashboard** project.  
Project overview and architecture: https://github.com/LuisAMSantiago/ai-support-dashboard

## Tech Stack
- Laravel
- Sanctum
- Queues (database/sync)

## Requirements
- PHP >= 8.2
- Composer
- MySQL or PostgreSQL

## What this backend demonstrates
- RESTful API development with Laravel
- SPA authentication using Laravel Sanctum
- Asynchronous processing with jobs and queues
- Event modeling and activity history tracking
- Clean code organization and separation of responsibilities

## Running locally
1. `cp .env.example .env`
2. `composer install`
3. `php artisan key:generate`
4. Configure the following variables in `.env`:
    - `APP_URL=http://127.0.0.1`
    - `SANCTUM_STATEFUL_DOMAINS=127.0.0.1:5173`
    - `SESSION_DOMAIN=127.0.0.1`
    - `DB_*`
5. `php artisan migrate --seed`
6. `php artisan serve`

## AI Jobs (Queues)
By default, you can use:
- `QUEUE_CONNECTION=sync` to run jobs immediately, or
- `QUEUE_CONNECTION=database` and `php artisan queue:work` for background processing.

If using `database`, make sure the queue migrations have been applied (`php artisan migrate`).

## Authentication
- SPA authentication using Laravel Sanctum
- Login available through the frontend application

## Seed data
The database seed creates a test user:
- email: `test@example.com`
- password: `password`

## AI (mock, provider-ready architecture)
By default, the backend uses `App\Services\MockAiTicketService` when `OPENAI_API_KEY` is not set.  
To enable the OpenAI-backed service, set these variables in `.env`:
- `OPENAI_API_KEY=...`
- `OPENAI_MODEL=gpt-4o-mini`
- `OPENAI_BASE_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions`
Then set this in `\config\services.php`:
```php
    'openai' => [
        'key' => env('OPENAI_API_KEY'),
        'base_url' => env('OPENAI_BASE_URL', 'https://api.openai.com/v1/'),
        'model' => env('OPENAI_MODEL', 'gpt-4o-mini'),
    ]

To switch between mock and real AI:
- stop the server and queue
- add/remove the `#` from the beginning of the `OPENAI_API_KEY` line in .env
- run these commands:
- `php artisan config:clear`
- `php artisan cache:clear`
- `php artisan optimize:clear`
Then restart the server and queue.
